Introduction to the DOM

The Document Object Model, usually referred to as the DOM, is an essential part of making websites interactive. 
It is an interface that allows a programming language to manipulate the content, structure, and style of a website. 
JavaScript is the client-side scripting…


Understanding the DOM Tree and Nodes

The DOM is often referred to as the DOM tree, and consists of a tree of objects called nodes. 
In the Introduction to the DOM, we went over what the Document Object Model (DOM) is, how to access…


How To Access Elements in the DOM

In order to be proficient at accessing elements in the DOM, 
it is necessary to have a working knowledge of CSS selectors, 
syntax and terminology as well as an understanding of HTML elements. 
In this tutorial, we will go over several ways to access elements in the DOM: by ID, class, tag, and query selectors.


How To Traverse the DOM

This tutorial will go over how to traverse the DOM 
(also known as walking or navigating the DOM) with parent, child, and sibling properties.


How To Make Changes to the DOM

In this tutorial, we will go over how to create new nodes and insert them into the DOM, 
replace existing nodes, and remove nodes.


How To Modify Attributes, Classes, and Styles in the DOM

In this tutorial, we will learn how to further alter the DOM by modifying styles, classes, 
and other attributes of HTML element nodes. 
This will give you a greater understanding of how to manipulate essential elements within the DOM.


Understanding Events in JavaScript

Events are actions that take place in the browser that can be initiated by either the user or the browser itself. 
In this JavaScript aticle, we will go over event handlers, event listeners, and event objects. 
We’ll also go over three different ways to write code to handle events, and a few of the most common events. 
By learning about events, you’ll be able to make a more interactive web experience for end users.


Understanding the DOM — Document Object Model eBook

Download the Complete eBook! 
Understanding the DOM — Document Object Model eBook in EPUB format Understanding the DOM — 
Document Object Model eBook in PDF format

When the browser loads the page, it “reads” (another word: “parses”) the HTML and generates DOM objects from it. 
For element nodes, most standard HTML attributes automatically become properties of DOM objects.
For instance, if the tag is <body id="page">, then the DOM object has body.id="page".
But the attribute-property mapping is not one-to-one! 
